.\" Manpage for startw.
.\" Contact hv15 AT hw.ac.uk to correct errors or typos.
.TH startw 1 "19 Oct 2016" "1.1.1" "startw man page"
.SH NAME
startw \- initialise a Wayland session
.SH SYNOPSIS
startw [-h] [-v] [-c CONFIG] [-k KEYBOARDCONF] 
.SH DESCRIPTION
The startw script is a front end to a Wayland shell (e.g. desktop manager) that provides a somewhat nicer user interface for running a single Wayland session. It is typically run without any arguments.

Much of the configuration for the Wayland shell is done through a shell specific configuration file. However, some settings can only be given through command-line arguments and/or environmental variables.
For instance, to configure the keyboard layout in most Wayland shells, the following environment variables need to be set: XKB_DEFAULT_RULES, XKB_DEFAULT_MODEL, XKB_DEFAULT_LAYOUT, XKB_DEFAULT_VARIANT, XKB_DEFAULT_OPTION. The startw script handles this through the \fB-k\fP option (see below on how to use it).

The script is analogues to the startx(1) and xinit(1) commands used to initialise a X Window System session.
.SH OPTIONS
The arguments that are currently support by startw are:
.IP \fB\-h\fP 3
print out the usage message and exit.
.IP \fB\-v\fP
print out the version number and exit.
.IP \fB\-c\fP
specify a configuration file other than the default.
.IP \fB\-k\fP
specify the keyboard settings as a string formatted as "layout;model;variant;options", e.g. "us;;;ctrl:nocaps" for a US keyboard with no caps-lock. See xkeyboard-config(7) for more information.
.SH FILES
.IP \fB$(HOME)/.winitrc\fP 20
Client to run. Typically a shell script which runs many programs in the background. (\fIDefault\fP) 
.SH SEE ALSO
startx(1), xinit(1)
.SH BUGS
No known bugs.
.SH AUTHOR
Hans-Nikolai Viessmann (hv15@hw.ac.uk)
